# i-MSCP 1.5.x Serie (Ennio Morricone) -- Errata

First of all, if you're updating from an older i-MSCP Serie, you **MUST** read
the previous errata files that you can find in the [documentation](./)
directory.

## Version 1.5.4

### Supported distributions

#### Devuan

Support for [Devuan ASCII](https://devuan.org/) has been added.

#### Ubuntu

Support for [Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic Beaver)](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/18.04/)
has been added. However, you must bear in mind that the i-MSCP networking
configuration provider for [Netplan](https://netplan.io/) has not been
backported to the `1.5.x` Serie yet. This means that if you want use this new
i-MSCP version with Ubuntu >= 18.04 (Bionic Beaver), you need first reinstall
the `ifupdown` package and configure your network through the
`/etc/network/interfaces` configuration file.

See [Howto get back to ifupdown](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1031709/ubuntu-18-04-switch-back-to-etc-network-interfaces/1052023#1052023)

### Installer

#### Distribution packages files

Several changes were made in the
[distribution packages files](../autoinstaller/Packages). If you make use of
your own packages file through an i-MSCP listener file, don't forget to fix
it prior running the installer.

#### Apache2 Web server

For Ubuntu distributions, the Apache2 Web server is now installed through the
[Ondřej Surý PPA](https://launchpad.net/~ondrej/+archive/ubuntu/apache2).

##### Supported TLS versions

TLS versions older than `v1.2` were disabled as those are not longer considered
safe, and some services such as Paypal won't work with older versions. See
[Paypal TLS 1.2 and HTTP/1.1 Upgrade](https://www.paypal.com/sg/webapps/mpp/tls-http-upgrade)
for further details.

If you need support older TLS versions, you can always edit the
`/etc/apache2/site-avaialble/00_nameserver.conf` file and change the following
configuration statement:
```apache2
SSLProtocol              all -SSLv2 -SSLv3 -TLSv1 -TLSv1.1
```
by
```apache2
SSLProtocol              all -SSLv2 -SSLv3
```

Once done, you **MUST** not forget to restart the `apache2` service.

#### PHP versions

All available PHP versions from Ondřej Surý are now installed, regardless of
the selected PHP version for the control panel and clients. Doing this make it
possible to enhance the PhpSwitcher plugin by using packaged PHP versions
instead of relying on self-compiled PHP versions.

Note that you still need the PhpSwitcher plugin if you want make your
clients able to switch between different PHP versions. Without the PhpSwitcher
plugin, there is no way to switch between different PHP versions, even if there
are more than one version installed on the system. The installer will disable
unused PHP (FPM) versions to prevent them to start on server boot.

At this time, the following PHP versions are installed:

```
  5.6, 7.0, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3
```

Note that PHP **7.2** and PHP **7.3** cannot be selected yet for the control panel.
However, they can be selected for the clients.

The PHP version for the control panel is set as default alternative at the
system level. You **MUST** not change the default system alternative for PHP
as the installer rely on that default.

#### Preseeding

The [preseeding template file](./preseed.pl) has been updated. If you make use
of the preseeding feature, don't forget to update your preseeding file.

#### SQL server

Support for MariaDB server 10.3 has been added.

### Core packages

#### Net2FTP (File manager)

The Net2FTP package has been removed. The Net2FTP filemanager is no longer
maintained, making it unsafe.

#### Pydio (File manager)

The Pydio package is still provided but is made available only when the PHP
5.6 version is selected for the control panel. We don't recommend usage of
Pydio as FTP Web filemanager. You **SHOULD** instead choose PHP 7.1 for the
control panel and MonstaFTP as Web filemanager.

#### PolicyWeight (Postfix addon)

The policy-weight daemon for the Postfix MTA is now provided through a core
package. If you make use of the PolicyWeight plugin, you **SHOULD** uninstall it
prior running the installer and switch to the core integration.

In any case, you shouldn't make use of the policy-weight server if you select
the Rspamd package (postfix addon). Instead, you should select the RBL Rspamd
module.

#### Postgrey (Postfix addon)

The postgrey server for the Postfix MTA is now provided through a core
package. If you make use of the Postgrey plugin, you **SHOULD** uninstall it
prior running the installer and switch to the core integration.

In any case, you shouldn't make use of the postgrey server if you select the
Rspamd package (postfix addon). Instead, you should select the Greylisting
Rspamd module.

#### Postscreen (Postfix addon)

The postscreen server for the Postfix MTA is now provided through a core
package. If you make use of the Postscreen plugin, you **SHOULD** uninstall it
prior running the installer and switch to the core integration.

#### SPF (Postfix addon)

The SPF policy server for the Postfix MTA is now provided through a core
package. If you make use of the PolicySPF plugin, you **SHOULD** uninstall it
prior running the installer and switch to the core integration.

In any case, you shouldn't make use of the SPF policy server if you select the
Rspamd package (postfix addon). Instead, you should select the SPF Rspamd
module.

#### SRS (Postfix addon)

Support for Sender Rewriting Scheme (SRS) has been added.

See [postsrsd](https://github.com/roehling/postsrsd) for further details about
the purpose of that service.

#### Rspamd (Postfix addon

[Rspamd](https://rspamd.com/) has been integrated in core. Rspamd is a spam
filtering system written in C that provide much better performances than the
historical SpamAssassin solution. It comes with many features and can integrate
external softwares such as the ClamAV antivirus through modules.

Bear in mind that the Rspamd core integration is still in experimental state.

##### SpamAssassin plugin

If you currently make use of the SpamAssassin plugin and want switch to Rspamd,
you should really considere to uninstall it. Having both SpamAssassin and
Rspamd running on the same system can lead to serious performance penalties.

We highly recommend to switch to the Rspamd core integration as the
SpamAssassin plugin will be abandoned in a near future.

#### ClamAV (Postfix addon)

[ClamAV](https://www.clamav.net/) has been integrated in core. ClamAV is the
open source standard for mail gateway scanning software.

ClamAV is executed differently depending on whether or not you choose Rspamd
for the antispam solution. If you choose Rspamd, ClamAV is run through the
Rspamd antivirus module, otherwise it is run through ClamAV milter.

Bear in mind that the ClamAV core integration is still in experimental state.

##### ClamAV plugin

If you currently make use of the ClamAV plugin and want switch to the ClamAV
core integration, you should first uninstall the ClamAV plugin prior running
the installer. The behavior will be undefined if you have both the ClamAV core
integration and the ClamAV plugin enabled at the same time.

We highly recommend to switch to the ClamAV core integration as the ClamAV
plugin will be abandoned in a near future.

### DNS servers

#### DNS server names, Dual Stacking (IPv4/IPv6)

Historically, the DNS server names were configured on a per zone basis using
client domain names and associated IP addresses.

The problem with that approach is that it was difficult to be fully compliant
with the [RFC 1912](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1912.txt) which recommend that
`for every IP address, there should be a matching PTR record`. Indeed, having
DNS server names based on client domain names involve different IP addresses
per zone as most of time, only one single PTR record can be set per IP address.

Another problem was the fact that for each DNS server name there was the
corresponding glue record to create. This was really a problem for the clients
providing their own domains, and which are unable to create them due to
insufficient knownledge. This was of course also a problem for ISP and IT
companies. Having to create glue records each time a new domain is added to
the control panel is really a pain.

That is why the installer now give the possibility to setup the DNS server IP
addresses and names for the DNS servers, which are used in all DNS zone files.
This make also possible to enable DNS dual stacking more easily. Bassically
put, the features provided by the [`10_named_global_ns.pl`(../contrib/Listeners/Named/10_named_global_ns.pl/)
listener file have been integrated in i-MSCP core.

**Note:** If you already make use of the
[`10_named_global_ns.pl`](../contrib/Listeners/Named/10_named_global_ns.pl/)
listener file you **SHOULD** really consider to remove it prior running the
installer and use the core feature in place.

#### DNS zone template files

##### A/AAAA DNS records

The following A/AAAA DNS records were removed from the DNS template files:

```
ftp, mail, imap, pop, pop3, relay, smtp
```

These DNS records were inherited from [VHCS](http://www.vhcs.net/) but have
been now removed for the following reasons:

1. The FTP, IMAP/POP, SMTP servers are configured with an SSL certificate in
which the above names are not listed as subject alternative names. The SSL
certificate only holds the server hostname. Furthermore, It is not viable to
renew an SSL certificate each time a new domain is added through the control
panel. Anyway most of CA such as Let's Encrypt CA define a limit for the number
of subject alternative names that an SSL certificates can contain.
2. Accessing the FTP, IMAP/POP, SMTP servers through SSL using these names
lead to `SSL name mismatch` errors.

Simply put, your clients **MUST** access the FTP, IMAP/POP and SMTP servers
using the server hostname.

###### External master DNS server

If you make use of an external master DNS server, you **MUST** not forget to
remove the DNS records manually.

##### MX && SPF records

The default MX records in the DNS template files were updated. These are now
set with the server hostname. The reasons for this are:

1. Outgoing mail is sent through the primary server IP while the client domain
IP addresses can be different.
2. The MX host **MUST** have a correct reverse DNS (PTR record). In other
word, a lookup on the server primary IP (WAN) **MUST** resolve to the server
hostname while a lookup on the server hostname **MUST** resolve to the server
primary IP.

The SPF DNS records were updated according the above changes.

###### External master DNS server

If you make use of an external master DNS server, you **MUST** not forget to
update the MX and SPF records as follows:

For the domains:

```
@ IN MX {SERVER_HOSTNAME}.
@ IN TXT "v=spf1 mx -all"
```

where `{SERVER_HOSTNAME}` **MUST** be replaced with the i-MSCP server hostname.

For the subdomain

```
$ORIGIN {SUBDOMAIN_NAME}.
; sub MAIL entry BEGIN
@ IN MX 10 {SERVER_HOSTNAME}
@ IN TXT "v=spf1 include:{DOMAIN_NAME} -all"
```

where `{SUBDOMAIN_NAME}` **MUST** be replaced with the subdomain name.
where `{SERVER_HOSTNAME]` **MUST** be replaced with the i-MSCP server hostname.

## Version 1.5.3

Maintenance release

## Version 1.5.2

Canceled release

## Version 1.5.1

 Maintenance release

## Version 1.5.0

### Mail accounts

#### Default mail accounts

Default mail accounts are now protected by default. However, the system
administrator can always disable the protection through the administrator
settings interface.

As a reminder, default mail accounts are a restricted list taken from those
that are listed in the [RFC 2142](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2142.txt).

The following default mail accounts are created:

- abuse      (Client Relations)
- hostmaster (DNS service)
- postmaster (SMTP service)
- webmaster  (HTTPD service)

Beware that unprotecting default mail accounts is discouraged. These accounts
are needed.

It is important to note that if default mail accounts are not protected and
that a client turn a default mail account into a normal mail account, that
last will no longer be seen as a default mail account.

#### Mail accounts accounting

##### Catch-all accounts

Catch-all accounts are now counted in the client mail accounts limit. These
accounts behave like foward mail accounts for an entire domain and therefore,
there are no valid reasons to discard them from the mail accounts limit.

### Cosmetics (frontEnd)

#### Unlimited objects

Unlimited objects, whatever their nature, are now represented by the `∞`
mathematical infiny symbol.

### Output compression (FrontEnd)

Output compression at the frontEnd side has been removed. Output is compressed
at the Nginx Web server level.

Note that all related parameters were also removed.

### Userland cache (FrontEnd)

The frontEnd now make use of the [APCu](http://php.net/manual/en/book.apcu.php)
userland cache for caching of several resources such as localization,
translation, service statuses. This list is non exhaustive.

If for any reason, the APCu extension is not available, there is a fallback to
another but more slower cache backend (File caching).

Bear in mind that on production systems, it is really important to disable the
`DEBUG` mode by setting the `DEBUG` configuration parameter to `0` in your
`/etc/imscp/imscp.conf` file. If you don't do so, access to the frontEnd will
be really slow and a warning will be showed at the administrator UI level.
