# i-MSCP 1.6.x Serie (Alan Silvestri) -- Errata

First of all, if you're updating from an older i-MSCP Serie, you **MUST** read
the [previous errata](1.5.x_errata.md) file from bottom to top.

## Version 1.6.0

### Distributions

#### Debian-like distributions

##### APT /etc/apt/sources.list file

i-MSCP now comes with its own APT `/etc/apt/sources.list` file. If you need to
add your own APT repositories, you should put them under the
`/etc/apt/sources.list.d` directory.

See [SOURCES.LIST(5)](https://manpages.debian.org/stretch/apt/sources.list.5.en.html)
for further details.

If you want really use your own `/etc/apt/souces.list` file, you can make use of the
[iMSCP::Listener::APT::Source::List](../contrib/Listeners/APT/10_apt_sources_list.pl)
i-MSCP listener file. If you do so, you'll have to make sure that the required Debian, Ubuntu
or Devuan repositories are present for the expected suite and components.

Note that no support will be provided by our team if your `/etc/apt/sources.list` file doesn't fit
with i-MSCP pre-requisites.

#### Debian distribution

Support for Debian 10/Buster (testing) has been added. Note that support is
still experimental and that this version is not ready yet for production use.

#### Ubuntu distribution

Support for Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Bionic/Beaver) has been added.

### Dovecot configuration

It is now possible to override the default Dovecot configuration by putting
configuration files into the new `/etc/dovecot/imscp.d` directory.

That is now the recommended way to customize the Dovecot configuration. The
configuration files that are put into the `/etc/dovecot/imscp.d` directory are
kept in place when updating/reconfiguring i-MSCP, excepted the configuration
files that are bound to the i-MSCP dovecot listener files, that is, those ending
by `_listener.conf`. For instance: `30_dovecot_namespace_listener.conf`

### i-MSCP frontend

#### Files location

i-MSCP frontend files were moved from the `/var/www/imscp/gui` directory to
the `/var/www/imscp/frontend` directory (default layout)

#### Dependencies

The frontend dependencies are now installed through the [PHP dependency manager (composer)](https://getcomposer.org/).

Current dependencies are as follows:

- Net_DNS2 - Native PHP5 DNS Resolver and Updater (v1.4.x)
- PHP Secure Communications Library (v2.0.x)
- Pure PHP IDNA Converter (v1.1.x)
- Zend Escaper component (v2.5.x)
- Zend Framework (v1.12.x)

#### HTML Templates

HTML templates, including HTML template blocks defined within them, are now
resolved only once, and put in cache for faster processing.

If you want to develop a plugin or theme for the i-MSCP frontEnd, you *MUST*
not forget to disable both the OPcode cache (OPcache) and the userland cache
(APCu).

- You can disable OPcache by editing the `/usr/local/etc/imscp_panel/php.ini`
file and by restarting the `imscp_panel` service, or by editing the
`/etc/imscp/frontend/frontend.data` file and by triggering an i-MSCP
reconfiguration.
- You can disable APCu by enabling the debugging mode in the
`/etc/imscp/imscp.conf` file.

#### PHP

The i-MSCP FrontEnd now makes use of the best supported PHP version regardless
of the selected PHP alternative for customers. In other words, even when the
`PhpSwitcher` plugin is not used, the PHP version used by the i-MSCP frontEnd
can be other than the PHP version used by customers.

### i-MSCP backend

#### Files location

i-MSCP backend files were moved from the `/var/www/imscp/engine` directory to
the `/var/www/imscp/backend` directory (default layout)

### i-MSCP installer

It is now possible to reconfigure more than one item at time by passing a comma
separated list of items to the `--reconfigure` command line option.

For instance:

```
perl imscp-installer -dr httpd,php
```

Note that this enhancement applies also to the i-MSCP reconfiguration script.

#### Distribution packages

The installer now make sure that all distribution packages are up-to-date and
that the pre-requisites are met before starting the installation process.

### i-MSCP listener files

Due to major changes in core, you need to update all your listener files to
latest versions. You can find latest versions in the contrib directory of the
i-MSCP 1.6.0 archive.

#### PHP (Debian like distributions)

All available PHP versions are now installed, regardless of the selected PHP
version for customers. Doing this will make it possible to enhance the
`PhpSwitcher` plugin by using packaged PHP versions instead of relying on
self-compiled PHP versions.

Note that you still need the `PhpSwitcher` plugin if you want make your
customers able to switch between different PHP versions. Without the
PhpSwitcher plugin, there are no way to switch between different PHP versions,
even if there are more than one version installed on the system. The i-MSCP
installer will disable unused PHP (FPM) versions to prevent them to start on
server boot.

##### Configuration level (all distributions)

PHP configuration level is now configurable through the PHP editor. The
administrators set the PHP configuration level for the resellers and the
resellers set the PHP configuration level for their customers.

As reminder, the available PHP configuration levels are as follows:

- Per site  : Different PHP configuration for each domain, including subdomains
- Per domain: Identical PHP configuration for each domain, including subdomains
- Per user  : Identical PHP configuration for all domains, including subdomains

### i-MSCP master SQL user (imscp_user)

Following our security policy hardening, authentication data that belong to the
i-MSCP master SQL user are no longer stored into the
`/etc/mysql/conf.d/imscp.cnf` configuration file.

In previous versions, the `root` user was able to connect to SQL server through
`MYSQL(1)` command-line tool, and perform SQL dumps through `MYSQLDUMP(1)`
without having to enter credentials.

With this new version, that is no longer possible, unless the `unix_socket`
authentication plugin is enabled for the user.

For people that have lost the i-MSCP master SQL user password, or that have
made an unattended i-MSCP installation, they can always recover it by executing
the [get_imscp_master_sql_user_pwd.pl](../contrib/scripts/get_imscp_master_sql_user_pwd.pl) 
Perl script. For instance:

```shell
root@stretch:/usr/local/src/imscp# perl /var/www/imscp/backend/tools/imscp-get-master-sql-user-pwd.pl 
[INFO]  Your i-MSCP master SQL user is         : imscp_user
[INFO]  Your i-MSCP master SQL user password is: 7U4Bk2cmANuicQ7P
[WARN]  Information based on data from your /etc/imscp/imscp.conf file.
```

### i-MSCP packages

#### Net2FTP

The `Net2FTP` package has been removed. The Net2FTP filemanager is no longer
maintained, making it unsafe.

#### Pydio

The `Pydio` package has been temporarily disabled as the version provided by
our composer package is no compatible with PHP ≥ 7.0. Once our package will be
updated, we'll re-enable it.

### Networking

From now on and if the administrator explicitely set the primary server IP with
the `None` option, the `INADDR_ANY` IP address will be used in all cases,
regardless of the current IP assigned to domains. or subdomains

For Apache2 this means that a wildcard will be used in place of the IP
addresses in vhost files.

See also: [1.4.x errata -- Network setup](1.4.x_errata.md#network-setup)

#### Primary server IP

When the primary server IP is reconfigured, it is now possible to ask the
installer to replace the IP address of all clients by that new IP address.

#### Support for dual stacking of IPv4 and IPv6

Dual stacking of IPv4 and IPv6 is now fully supported by both iMSCP servers.
From now on, the resellers can assign more than one IP addresse to their
customers, and the customers can assign one or many IP addresses to their
domains and subdomains.

### i-MSCP plugins

Due to major changes in core, you must disable **ALL** plugins prior any update
attempt. Once you have updated your i-MSCP installation, you **MUST** upload the
newest plugin versions prior re-activating them.

### i-MSCP Servers

All i-MSCP servers were rewritten. An abstract implementation is now provided
for each of them, making it possible to support any GNU/Linux distributions
such as Centos, Fedora, OpenSUSE (Leap)...

Support for distributions other than Debian like distributions will be added
over the time. You're free to help us to implement the i-MSCP servers for your
favorite distribution.

#### Cron server

Support for `SYSTEMD.CRON(7)` has been added. `SYSTEMD.CRON(7)` is an
alternative to the historical Vixie `CRON(8)` daemon. See the SYSTEMD.CRON(7)
manpage for further details.

Note that the `SYSTEMD.CRON(7)` i-MSCP server implementation is not available
under distributions that are not running SYSTEMD(1) as init system.

#### Postfix MTA - Database driver

An i-MSCP Postfix database driver for MySQL has been added. This driver
allows the Postfix MTA to lookup into the i-MSCP database directly
(in specific SQL views) instead of relying on intermediate database files.

This driver will become the default choice when it will reach sufficient
stability.

### Processing of i-MSCP's backend requests

There are now two way to process the i-MSCP's backend requests:

- Via the historical i-MSCP daemon: Backend requests are treated in real
time by a daemon running in background
- Via cron(8): Backend requests are looked-up and processed every 5 minutes
through a cron task.

The second posibility will delay the treatement but will fit better for a
server that is highly busy.

### SQL servers (Debian like distributions)

From now on, following SQL vendors/versions are supported:

- MariaDB and/or MySQL from distribution official APT repository
- MariaDB ≥ 10.1 (MariaDB APT repository)
- MySQL ≥ 5.7 (MySQL APT repository)
- Percona ≥ 5.7 (Percona APT repository)

If you really want use another SQL server vendor/version, you can always make
use of the [Packages](../contrib/Listeners/Packages/10_packages_override.pl)
listener file to provide your own i-MSCP packages file. However, bear in mind
that no support will be provided by our team in such a case.
